the initial us response to the hummus
attack 10 days ago was immediate
condemnation but absent was the call for
Israeli restraint that in the past would
be part of us reaction over the past 24
hours as a US Secretary of State
shuttled through the region there's been
an apparent shift in the US position
President Biden now advising Israel
against any reoccupation of Gaza what
happened in Gaza in my view is
Hamas and the extreme elements of Hamas
don't represent all the Palestinian
people and uh I think that uh it would
be a mistake to uh for Israel to occupy
God again we but to going in and taking
out the uh the extremist the uh
Hezbollah is up north but Hamas down
south is a necessary requirement do you
believe that Hamas must be eliminated
entirely yes I do but there needs to be
a Palestinian Authority there needs to
be a a path to a Palestinian State we
work together to make sure that to the
best of our ability this conflict is not
spread a possible reason for the US
shift may be a consequence of Anthony
blink's discussions in his meeting with
Egyptian president abdal fatah Eli anger
at Israeli action was made
public this is a huge crisis and I'm
concerned that the Israeli reaction
exceeded the right to self-defense and
turned into a collective punishment of
the Gaza Strip which has 2.3 million
Palestinians in Doha the Iranian foreign
minister met the Emir of Qatar tamim bin
hammad Alani who maintains relations
with all parties to the conflict in an
interview with Al jazer Iran's top
Diplomat said his country will not
remain a bystander if Israel continues
attacking
Gaza if the measures aiming at
immediately stopping the Israeli
occupations attack that are killing
children in the Palestinian territories
namely in the Gaza Strip and in the
deadlock it is highly probable that many
other fronts will be opened this option
is not ruled out and this has becoming
increasingly more probable the Biden
Administration appears increasingly
concerned about a wider War a
recommitment to a two-state solution
along with increasing efforts in
humanitarian relief may be part of a
strategy to reassure Arab allies that
the US can be a fair broker in the
conflict Mike Hannah Al jazer
Washington let's go live now to Heidi
Joe Castro in Washington DC heidy it
does appear there is this shift in the
rhetoric coming from the US president
when it comes to the Gaza War what do we
make of
it that's right MIM but it's notable
that in this interview that President
Biden gave he doesn't even come close to
criticizing Israel rather this shift if
you want to call it that it is that he's
coming closer now to warning Israel uh
into not to show some restraint and not
occupying Gaza now he also expressed
concern for the humanitarian crisis in
Gaza uh saying that he believed Israel
though would follow international law
and minimi minimize civilian casualties
he also said that he was quote confident
that civilians in Gaza would not be
prevented from having water food or
medicine now this is an interview that
was taped on Thursday it just aired in
the United States but obviously from
what we've been seeing that has not been
the situation for gazin who are indeed
uh running short on all of those
humanitarian needs now as far as uh the
president it goes now he is now weighing
a potential visit to Israel having
received an invitation from prime
minister Benjamin Netanyahu the White
House not giving much information about
this potential visit a lot of it
depending on the security circumstances
going forward when and if this happens
and also asked more to expand on the
two-state solution that Biden alluded to
in this interview which of course has
long been the US policy the president
was asked whether now is the time for
that two-state solution to be pursued
his answer was
no thank you for that Heidi Joe Castro
there for us in Washington DC